# Chp 1 of DOET

The first chapter of Donald Norman’s *The Design of Everyday Things* gave me a new lens for looking at the objects I interact with daily. One of the ideas that stood out to me was the discussion of **affordances** (p. 9). The way an object suggests its possible uses, like a chair “affording” sitting, seems obvious to most, but I never realized how often bad design can ignore this principle. For example, I remember struggling with the *“Keyless”* card slide lock at the campus dorms. There was no clear cue for what position to put my card when swiping nor how fast or slow I should be, and I would sometimes end up swiping several times until it finally registered. That frustration came from poor affordance and lack of clear **signifiers**.

Another section that stood out to me was **the paradox of technology** (p. 31). The more advanced a product is, the harder it can be to use. I recall struggling to get smart TV to work so that I could watch shows on streaming without my laptop. There's too many button apps and setup requirements for it that I wind up only using it for volume and setting my input display for my game consoles. These “extra features” added confusion instead of value for, which aligns with Norman’s point that complexity without clarity undermines usability.

The overall takaway from this chapter for me is that good design is less about making something *fancy* and more about making it **intuitive**. There's an issue with a product if it requires a manual for the common user to perform basic tasks. To quote Norman himself, *“When simple things need pictures, labels, or instructions, the design has failed”* (Norman, p. 9). After reading this chapter, I'll try to make sure I'm more cautious of design flaws in the objects I interact with. 
